- [Instructor] In JSP files and other Java EE technologies,
we can use the expression language
to access application data.
Expression language, also known as EL,
provides a simple syntax for creating expressions
that resolve to objects or methods.
This allows us to avoid using JSP scriptlets
and declarations that mix our application logic
and code within the markup.
We've already used expression language several times
to reference attributes in the request.
So, for example, within our forEach tag,
we're referencing the items attribute
using the expression language,
and here you can see the syntax.
It's just a dollar sign and then curly braces
and the attribute or object
you'd like to reference within it.
Now, you can also use this syntax
with a pound sign.
This causes the resolution of the attribute
to be deferred until it's actually referenced.
It's more common, though, to use the dollar sign syntax.
Now, within the expression language,
we do have access to those implicit objects we talked about.
So let's just take a look at a few of those.
You can access the pageContext,
which has different information about the page,
and on that pageContext is a request object,
and we can use that to access the contextPath.
So that's a path related to this page.
Sometimes that's used for creating URLs.
We can also access the parameter map
by using the param implicit object.
So here we'll pull the name parameter
from that parameter map.
And then we can also reference cookies.
So you'll remember that we added a cookie named someCookie
to our...
request using the servlet.
We can go ahead and reference the value of that cookie
within our expression language.
And then the next thing I'd like to show you
is how we can reference methods
within the expression language.
So we're going to go ahead and add an h3 tag to the page,
and we're going to display...
an item count.
And here we'll use the expression language,
and we can reference the collection of items
and invoke the size method on that collection
to get the number of items in the collection.
And then what I'm going to do is actually
use an arithmetic operator
to multiply that size by two.
Okay, so we got quite a bit of expression language
in the page here.
Let's go ahead and run an example.
I'll just head over to the Package Explorer,
right click,
then go to Run As
and Run on Server.
We'll see the server start up.
And then I'm going to open a browser.
And we can navigate to our form.
So let's add a new product here.
Let's say it's a snowboard.
And we'll say SuperSnowboard
is the manufacturer,
and once again we'll add an SKU.
And then when we submit that page,
you can see the expression language
resolving those expressions
and providing dynamic content that we reference.
So we were able to reference
those implicit objects found...
within the JSP that we have access to
and then were also able to invoke methods
and apply the arithmetic operator.
So that's a look at expression language.
You'll see it used throughout Java EE technologies,
and it's very useful,
and it's helpful for avoiding code within your markup.